---
layout: page
title: Research
subtitle: Ben Read / research
---
In my research projects to date I have studied grassroots-level organizations in East Asia, of two different varieties. The process of trying to acquire valid and useful information about such organizations has also stimulated me to write about methods, a third topic.

## I. State-Fostered Organizations

One branch of inquiry concerns networks of ultra-local organizations that incorporate popular participation yet are fostered by governments and drawn upon for administrative purposes. They are unfamiliar in Western settings, but Japan, South Korea, Indonesia and other East and Southeast Asian countries feature tens of thousands of these structures, which operate at the neighborhood or village level and facilitate social welfare, public health, policing and other state functions.

The first such institution that I have studied is China's system of urban Residents' Committees (jumin weiyuanhui). My doctoral dissertation was based on fourteen months of fieldwork in Beijing and other cities, which included repeated visits to a set of ten RCs, along with interviews and a survey of 1,124 Beijing residents. I have since conducted several rounds of follow-up research. Meanwhile, from 2003 on, I have also studied Taiwan's neighborhood administrative system, which constitutes a second example of such an institution. Urban neighborhoods (li) in Taiwan are headed by elected leaders (lizhang) who work with city government liaisons (liganshi) and choose a set of block captains (linzhang) to help them. Extensive interviews in Taipei and Chiayi, as well as a telephone survey of 1,140 Taipei residents, have helped me to understand this system.

I analyze and explain how ordinary citizens look upon and interact with these extensions of the state. I argue that the ways in which such organizations selectively draw upon and cultivate community networks highlight the efficacy of social capital, a concept theorized by scholars like James Coleman, Robert Putnam and Peter Evans &#8212; but also show its ability to further state projects, not just societal purposes. While China's authorities hold the RCs on a tight leash, Taiwan's lizhang system illustrates that institutions like these can evolve from authoritarian origins into highly democratic practices.

This book lays out the Chinese and Taiwanese cases in full detail and compares them to one another, also placing them in the context of other East and Southeast Asian cases:
+ <u>Roots of the State: Neighborhood Organization and Social Networks in Beijing and Taipei</u>, Stanford University Press 2012 [[abstract](Roots.html)] [[publisher's page](http://www.sup.org/book.cgi?id=18646)] [[Google books](http://www.amazon.com/Roots-State-Neighborhood-Organization-Contemporary/dp/0804775656)] [[Amazon page](http://www.amazon.com/Roots-State-Neighborhood-Organization-Contemporary/dp/0804775656)]

I've also co-edited a book in which contributors compare varieties of such state-linked organizations in countries throughout the region, including Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, and Singapore:
+ <U>Local Organizations and Urban Governance in East and Southeast Asia: Straddling State and Society</U>, edited by Benjamin L. Read with [Robert Pekkanen](http://www.robertpekkanen.com), Routledge 2009 [[table of contents](Straddlers.html)] [[abstracts](Straddlers.htm#Abstracts)] [[publisher's page](http://www.routledgeasianstudies.com/books/Local-Organizations-and-Urban-Governance-in-East-and-Southeast-Asia-isbn9780415492997)]

### Articles and book chapters from this project:

+ "Theoretical Approaches to Neighborhood Governance: Searching for Lost Treasure and Comparative Frameworks," in Ngai-Ming Yip, ed., <U>Neighborhood Governance in Urban China</U> (Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar, 2014), pp. 25–39 [[pdf](../publications/ReadBenjaminL_2014_TheoreticalApproachesToNeighbourhoodGovernance.pdf)]
+ "Public Attitudes toward Official Justice in Beijing and Rural China" (Ethan Michelson and Benjamin L. Read), in Margaret Y. K. Woo and Mary E. Gallagher, eds., <U>Chinese Justice: Civil Dispute Resolution in Contemporary China</U> (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2011), pp. 169-203 [[pdf](../publications/Michelson-Read_2011_AttitudesTowardOfficialJustice.pdf)]
+ "Mediating the Mediation Debate: Conflict Resolution and the Local State in China" (Benjamin L. Read and Ethan Michelson), <U>Journal of Conflict Resolution</U> Vol. 52, No. 5 (October 2008), pp. 737-764 [[abstract](http://jcr.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/52/5/737)] [[pdf](../publications/Read-Michelson_2008_JCR_Mediation.pdf)] [[unabridged tables](http://benread.net/publications/Mediation_FullTables.doc)] [[replication](../publications/Mediation_Replication.zip)]
+ "The State's Evolving Relationship with Urban Society: China's Neighborhood Organizations in Comparative Perspective" (Benjamin L. Read and Chun-Ming Chen) in John R. Logan, ed., <U>Urban China in Transition</U> (Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 2008), pp. 315-335 [[pdf](../publications/Read-Chen_2008_StatesRelationshipWithUrbanSociety.pdf)]
+ "State-Linked Associational Life: Illuminating Blind Spots of Existing Paradigms," in Benjamin L. Read with Robert Pekkanen, eds., <U>Local Organizations and Urban Governance in East and Southeast Asia: Straddling State and Society</U> (Abingdon, U.K.: Routledge, 2009), pp. 1-26 [[pdf](http://benread.net/publications/ReadBenjaminL_2009_ch1_StateLinkedAssociationalLife.pdf)], reprinted in <U>The Nature of the Nonprofit Sector</U>, 2nd ed., edited by J. Steven Ott and Lisa A. Dicke (Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 2012), pp. 385-401
+ "The Multiple Uses of Local Networks: State Cultivation of Neighborhood Social Capital in China and Taiwan," in Benjamin L. Read with Robert Pekkanen, eds., <U>Local Organizations and Urban Governance in East and Southeast Asia: Straddling State and Society</U> (Abingdon, U.K.: Routledge, 2009), pp. 121-157 [[pdf]("../publications/ReadBenjaminL_2009_ch6_MultipleUsesOfLocalNetworks.pdf)]
+ "Revitalizing the State's Urban 'Nerve Tips'," <U>The China Quarterly</U> No. 163 (September 2000), pp. 806-820 [[pdf](http://benread.net/publications/ReadBenjaminL_2000_ChinaQ_RevitalizingNerveTips.pdf)], reprinted in Andrew Kipnis, Luigi Tomba, and Jonathan Unger (eds.), <U>Contemporary Chinese Society and Politics</U>, Vol. 3 (London and New York: Routledge, 2009), pp. 33-48
